---
layout: page
title: Résumé
---

**SUDHARSAN RANGARAJAN**

Chennai / Secunderabad, India

Email: <sudharsan.rangarajan@gmail.com>

**VP – APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT**

Senior executive with **over 20 years** of demonstrated experience in
*envisioning, planning and implementing* cutting edge technology
solutions. Developing strategic plans for client services, product
support & quality assurance.

Adept at *crisis management, troubleshooting and problem solving*.
Ability to build a work environment based on *meritocracy and a strong
value system*. I have a strong track record of identifying, hiring and
grooming strong middle level management team. I played a key role in
multi-million dollar software products design and development,
**including 14 years in senior management.** Complete understanding of
technology trends in distributed computing and scalable architectures.

**Areas of Expertise**

  ------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------
  **Strategic Planning **         **Change Management**            **Process Improvement**
  **Agile Product Development**   **Team Building & Leadership**   **Bottom-line focus**
  ------------------------------- -------------------------------- -------------------------


**Current Role**

-   Vice President in a banking captive, leading the Credit Line of
    Business

-   Leading a total team of 150+ members managed through a team of AVPs,
    project managers etc.

-   Responsible for All aspects of software development – Business
    Analysis, Development and QA (Support was indirectly aligned)

-   Leading transformational efforts towards Agile and Predictable
    Delivery

-   Focus on growing talent in the organization through Leadership
    programs, Mentor-on-Demand, Round-tables etc.

**Experience**

**Vice President – Credit (within Fixed Income, Currencies and
Commodities – FICC)**

**BA Continuum India (A non-banking Bank of America subsidiary)**

Chennai, India

June 2011 – Present

I am part of the Global Markets & Technology Division, responsible for
the Front-Office tools used by Credit derivative traders who trade in
both flow and structured credit. Traditionally, the products were
heavily customized and OTC. Over the past few years, regulations are
gearing towards clearing of trades and market pressures are reducing the
volume and margin of such trades. Focus is now on electronic trading and
better client and market intelligence.

My team is involved in Trade Capture, eTrading/Trade Services, Market
Data, Risk and PnL and cover development, QA and support. Most recently,
the focus has been on meeting regulatory requirements like SEF clearing,
Semi-annual rolls, Dodd-Frank/Volcker metrics, internal models and
Comprehensive Risk Measures.

**Role: **

-   **Hands-on guidance in technology design (architecture) and
    implementation**

-   BofA is developing an enterprise Risk Platform called Quartz. This
    > includes a proprietary distributed database system,
    > messaging/notification, analytics, reporting, managed cluster
    > applications etc. The equivalent of these would be an architecture
    > based on frameworks like Hadoop/ Cassandra/ ZeroMQ/ AWS/ EC2/
    > S3 etc.

-   One of the few leaders who are equally at ease with both strategic
    > and tactical. I have personally created prototypes, presentation
    > and training sessions for my team and others.

-   **Growing & Mentoring the team**

-   Providing leadership & direction to a team of 150+ members
    > comprising of software developers, QA and support teams.

-   The team size has double in roughly 15 months. India teams now
    > account for 30% of global team.

-   Sensed the need for technical leadership training – established the
    > Technology Leadership Development Program (TLDP) and igniTe
    > (Technical Thought Leadership)

-   **Establishing a strong work culture and engagement model **

-   Ensures that the India team contributes up-the-value-chain and not
    > just a cost-play. Approach partly involves migrating to an Agile
    > development model and better engagement through a common book
    > of work.

**Director of Product Development**

**RiskSpan India Pvt. Ltd.**

Chennai, India

May 2006 – May 2011 (5 years)

RiskSpan is a software product company developing *Valuation and Risk
Management* tools for the Fixed Income market targeting Hedge funds
based in the US East coast. It is the only company to provide on-demand
risk analytics over the web.

RiskSpan's '*Software as a Service*' (SaaS) offering is possible due to
the unique architecture. The entire application development and most of
the support is out of the Chennai based development center.

**Role: **

-   **Establishing a mature corporate culture, defining and implementing
    processes for product development and support from India.**

-   All the core development work is done out of the Indian office. The
    > challenges of a 'tight release cycles' requires us to follow
    > processes that easy to adhere to *and* reliable enough not to
    > require manual interventions.

-   Example processes include: Continuous builds, Release, Automated
    > testing, Issue Tracking, Conventions to enhance traceability etc.

-   **Building an able middle level management team** : Establishing a
    knowledge management / dissemination framework which is key for
    smaller companies.

-   Reorganized product development around smaller teams, with better
    > knowledge sharing tools

-   Implemented a transparent performance appraisal mechanism

-   I have mentored key folks candidate evaluation along Technology,
    > Domain and Aptitude/Attitude.

-   **Influence Technical direction** : Migration from TAO/ACE based
    clusters to Terracotta based custom grid.

-   TAO (a CORBA ORB) and ACE (a networking framework) were the legacy
    > clustering mechanism.

-   We subsequently moved over to Terracotta framework hosted on Amazon
    > (AWS-EC2/EBS etc.). Combined with a heuristic scheduling,
    > load-balancing program, the new solution allows for better
    > monitoring & enhanced features. Instrumental in implementing in
    > .Net migration from Visual Basic.

-   We provide multiple user interfaces, including Perl modules, Java
    > CLI tools, Excel add-ins and the .Net client.

-   **Steering Product Vision** : In addition to providing technology
    direction to around *40 people* in the Chennai office, I bring my
    experience in product development + domain to steer product vision.

-   Technology direction includes guidance in architecture, choice of
    > tools/processes etc. This requires a lot of mentoring as well.

-   Product direction includes what is possible, where the market is
    > headed and if we need to align etc.

**Head of Indian Operations / CEO**

**Nisus Technologies Pvt. Ltd./Flink Systems Pvt. Ltd.**

Secunderabad, India

January 2001 - May 2006

Building and mentoring a development team of 30 people out of
Secunderabad, India. Overseeing the development of the Adhere product
suite consisting of server and client utilities for *compliance
managment (pre-trade/ post-trade and batch*) in financial industry. At
the core of the product was a rules-engine. This product was developed
under my guidance at Nisus Inc (see next entry). The intellectual
property was subsequently sold to FreightDesk.

**Role:**

-   Leading and mentoring a development team of 30 people out of
    Secunderabad, India.

-   Overseeing the development Adhere product suite consisting of server
    and client utilities for compliance management (pre-trade/
    post-trade and batch) in financial industry.

In addition, we developed a *Contract Management System for Pepsico NA*.
Pepsico NA writes contracts each vendor / distributor to subsidize the
product, vending machines and any dealer improvement programs. This
project involved to migrating existing paper contracts to electronic
format. A scanned copy of the scanned contract/legal documents are
tracked along with pertinent data on how the contract is being enforced
across it's lifecycle. This includes a contract approval workflow with
finance limits etc. The documents as well as the related data are stored
in Oracle 10G and the application is a Java webapplication using
Tapestry, Spring, Hibernate frameworks. This is one of the very early
adopters of AJAX for validation of user input etc.

We developed a *business rules generation module* for Freight Desk
(Logistics) as part of their offering to support Dept. of Homeland
Security rules. For e.g. details about cargo meant to reach the US
should be intimated before they arrive on US shores. A ship that docks
in US ports has lot of documentation based on which ports it might have
visited, the cargo carried etc. The rule generation module can generate
domain specific rules that can be executed in Jess (Java Expert System)
through an intermediate representation in RuleML (See
[www.ruleml.org](http://www.ruleml.org/))

**Software Architect**

**Nisus, Inc.**

Westboro, MA, USA

October 2000 - November 2001

Nisus, Inc. was a product development company. It's flagship offering
was *Adhere, real-time pre/post-trade and batch compliance management
tools*. I was instrumental in the architecture and design of the suite
of applications. A rules engine based on the *Rete algorithm* forms the
core of the product.

The suite of tools include a domain specific rule editor. It allows a
domain user to easily define rules based on mutual prospectus' and any
corporate risk management, governance rules into the system. These rules
can be temporal or reactive (based on some change to data in the
system). An example of a rule might be a restriction on the portfolio
concentration of the fund to technology stocks. The rules themselves
were represented in *RuleML*, which was pioneered by an employee of
Nisus.

In addition it consisted of a custom rules server, Webapplications for
managing the server, Trade blotter, Trade entry, what-if analysis,
reports etc. Due to it's use of a Rete rules engine, it could process
around 1000 rules per second. Some of the rules involved dynamically
computing complex information; for e.g. in case of deeply nested Fund of
Funds.

Technologies used include: Java for the server and client. The
application was DB agnostic and officially supported MSSqlServer, Oracle
and Sybase using a derivative of the Castor persistence framework. The
unique aspect of this product was it's ability to infer on changes to
data records in the database. Additionally C++ was used to provide an
interface for external order managment systems.

**Technical Specialist / Architect**

**Sapient Corp.**

Chicago, IL/ NY, NY USA\
August 1998 - September 2000

Was part of different teams in different roles during this tenure,
helping clients like Janus Funds, Morningstar, Classified Ventures,
United Airlines and Reynolds & Reynolds

I was the Architect of the United Airlines (www.ual.com) redesign
project. This involves implementation of Vignette content management
system, taking into consideration fail-over/load distribution etc.
across coasts. This project was the first one to use the combined teams
of Studio Archetype and Sapient teams in NY/CHI. It was prominently
featured and won awards for usability. The team consisted of around 40
people during the implementation and design phase.

On Reynolds and Reynolds (www.reyrey.com) based out of Dayton, OH, I was
part of the Trilogy compensation implementation team at Sapient,
Chicago.

We developed the online portal for Advisor segment for Morningstar,
called the Morningstar Advisor (advisor.morningstar.com). I was the
Technical Specialist on this project. Prior to the launch of this
website, Morningstar routinely used to ship compact discs with data to
help advisers service their customers.

**Software Analyst**

**Tata Consultancy Services**

Troy, MI, USA / India

September 1995 - July 1998

Was part of different teams during this tenure, helping clients like
Delphi Automotive Systems/ EDS, Datar SwitchGears, GE – Transportation
Systems

During this period, I was deputed to EDS for implementation of their
iMAN (Information Manager) product at Delphi Automotive Systems. iMAN is
a PDM (Product Development Management) or recently called PLM (Product
Lifecycle Management) product. It enables users to make 3D designs of
automotive components and tracks the design all the way to configuration
management, quality, testing and production.

**Engineer**

**J.K.Industries – HASETRI Research Division**

Kankroli, India

July 1994 - August 1995

Software development for design of tyres, noise prediction, finite
element analysis, vibration analysis etc.

For e.g. given tyre patterns (called sipes), it is possible to use Fast
Fourier Transforms to predict the noise that would be generated.
Similarly, by modeling the tyres in ANSYS, it is possible to predict the
construction quality of the tyres using Finite Element Analysis (FEA).

**Education**

Bachelors in Engineering (Hons) : Mechanical Engineering

Masters in Science (Hons) : Physics

**Birla Institute of Technology and Science – Pilani (India) 1989 -
1994**

Global Leadership Development Program **–** **Indian School of
Business** **2013**

You can also find my profile at **http://www.linkedin.com/in/sudhan**
